You see, we grew up together. Almost the earliest thing I remember is
the box at my bedroom window which the first rays of the rising sun
struck in spring. Then, as soon as ever the winter snows were gone and
the daffodils peeped through the half-frozen crust, some morning there
would be a mighty commotion in that box. Black shadows darted in and
out, and a great scratching and thumping went on. And while I lay and
watched with heart beating fast,--for was not here my songster playmate
back with the summer and the sunlight on his burnished wing?--out he
came on the peg for a sidelong peep at my window, and sat and whistled
the old tune, nodding to the bare trees he knew with his brave promise
that presently Jack Frost would be banished for good, and all would be
right. Was he not there to prove it? And it was even so. The summer was
right on his trail always.
The weeks passed, and the Old Town lay buried in a dreamy sea of
blossoming elders. In field and meadow the starling was busy from early
dawn till the sun was far in the west; for his young, of whom there
was always a vigorous family,--and oh! the glorious blue eggs we loved
to peep at before Mrs. Starling had taken them under her wing,--had a
healthy appetite and required no end of grubs and worms. But whether
they went to sleep early or he thought they had had enough, always when
the setting sun gilded the top of the old poplar, he would come with
all his friends and sing his evening song. In the very top branches,
swaying with the summer wind, they would sit and whistle the clear
notes in the minor key I hear yet when I am worn and tired, and that
tell me that some day it will all come back, You see, we grew up together. Almost the earliest thing I remember is
the box at my bedroom window which the first rays of the rising sun
struck in spring. Then, as soon as ever the winter snows were gone and
the daffodils peeped through the half-frozen crust, some morning there
would be a mighty commotion in that box. Black shadows darted in and
out, and a great scratching and thumping went on. And while I lay and
watched with heart beating fast,--for was not here my songster playmate
back with the summer and the sunlight on his burnished wing?--out he
came on the peg for a sidelong peep at my window, and sat and whistled
the old tune, nodding to the bare trees he knew with his brave promise
that presently Jack Frost would be banished for good, and all would be
right. Was he not there to prove it? And it was even so. The summer was
right on his trail always.
the joy and the sunshine
of the young days. It was for him I turned my boyish hands to their
first labor of love. I made him a house of an empty starch box, and
later on, when I had learned carpentering, I built for his family a
tenement of three flats that hung by my window many years after I knew
it no more. I had long been absorbed in the fight with tenements made
for human kind by builders with no such friendly feelings, when my
father wrote that the winter storms had blown down the box and broken
it, and that written inside in my boyish hand, they found these words
This box is for starlings, but, by the great horn spoon, not for sparrows.
We did not like sparrows. They were cheeky tramps, good only to eat
when there were enough of them. The starling was a friend.
I suppose it was the near approach of the time of his going away,
with the stork and the swallow, to leave us in the grip of the long
winter, that made me in desperation try to cage him once. How I could,
I don’t know. Boys are boys everywhere, I suppose. I made the cage with
infinite toil, caught my starling, and put him in it. But when I saw
him darting from side to side struggling to get out to the trees and
the grass and the clouds, my heart smote me, and I tore the cage apart
and threw open the window. It was many days before I could look my
friend in the eye, and I was secretly afraid all winter that he would
not come back. But he was a generous bird and bore no grudge. Next
spring he was there earlier than ever, as if he knew.
Never have I forgotten it; it is to me as vivid as if it were
yesterday, that black day when, with the instinct to “kill something”
strong in me, I had gone out with my father’s gun, and coming through
the willows, met a starling on joyous wing crossing the meadow on the
way to his nest. Up went the gun, and before I knew, I had shot him. I
can see him folding his wings as he fell at my feet. I did not pick him
up. I went home with all the sunlight gone out of the day. I have shot
many living things since, more shame to me, but never one that hurt
like that. I had slain my friend.
